README.md, before:

# README

Using a TDD approach with the support of the `testthat` package to solve teh roman conversion algorithm challenge in R.

See `tests/test_input_argument_validity.R` for the actual tests for validity of input argument.  
See `tests/test_roman_numeral_conversiona.R` for the actual tests for converstions.  
See `code/roman_numeral.R` for the actual code used for conversion.  

## Assumption

* Be sure that the working directory is set to the parent directory of `code` and `tests` folders.
* Run the set up file using `source("set_up_env.R")`
    * the __Autotest__ modality is switched on using the `auto_test()` function
        * __every change to code or tests will trigger the running of all tests__

## TDD approach: step by step

### Start Up

__think about the design of the code__  

* where to put the function, e.g folder, file
* name of the function
* function parameter(s)

__implement the function shell__  

* it accept an argument (any)
* it returns a "I" value (simplification)


```r
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  return("I")
}
```

__before writing any code, write a failing test__

* simplest modification to the code in order to make it pass - cut & paste allowed
* when all tests passing - refactor the code using the tests as a safety net

### And then, incremental design, one small step at a time

#### Step1, the argument must be integer otherwise an exception is thrown

(1) Create a test passing as argument a non numeric/ integer (e.g. 1) - expecting an error

* Add expectation: pass 1 return an error
    * Will fail cause an error is not thrown
* Modify the code in order to make it pass
            
```r
#Add expectation
context("Input Argument Validity")

test_that("passing a non numeric/ integer an exception is thrown",{
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman(1))
})
}
```

```r
#Modify the code
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  if(!is.integer(num)) stop("must be integer")
  return("I")
}
```

* Add expectation: pass 3.14 return an error
    * Will pass (same condition as before just a different argument)
* Add expectation: pass a string return an error
    * Will pass (same condition as before just a different type for argument)

```r
#Add expectations
context("Input Argument Validity")

test_that("passing a non numeric/ integer an exception is thrown",{
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman(1))
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman(3.14))
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman("test"))
})
```

(2) Create a test passing as argument a numeric/ integer (e.g. 1L) - expecting roman numeral "I"

* Add expectation: pass 1L return "I"
    * Will pass ("I" is hradcoded)

```r
context("Input Argument Validity")

test_that("passing a non numeric/ integer an exception is thrown",{
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman(1))
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman(3.14))
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman("test"))
})

test_that("passing a numeric/ integer no exception thrown",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^I$")
})
```



#### Step2, passing an integer the correct roman numeral is returned

(3) Create a test passing as argument an integer between [1..3]

* Add expectation: pass 1L return "I" 
    * Should pass cause already coverend in (2)

```r
#Create a new context, a new test and add expectation
context("Roman Numeral Conversion")

test_that("passing an integer between [1..3] the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^I$")
})
```

* Add expectation: pass 2L return "II" (and repeat for 3 return "III")
    * Will fail cause wrong roman numeral is returned
    * Modify the code in order to make it pass

```r
#Create a new context, a new test and add expectation
context("Roman Numeral Conversion")

test_that("passing an integer between [1..3] the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^I$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^II$")
})
```

```r
#Modify the code
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  if(!is.integer(num)) stop("must be integer")
  if (num == 1L) return("I")
  if (num == 2L) return("II")
}
```

```r
#Create a new context, a new test and add expectation
context("Roman Numeral Conversion")

test_that("passing an integer between [1..3] the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^I$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^II$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^III$")
})
```

```r
#Modify the code
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  if(!is.integer(num)) stop("must be integer")
  if (num == 1L) return("I")
  if (num == 2L) return("II")
  if (num == 3L) return("III")
}
```

(4) Create a test passing as argument a particular integer 4

* Add expectation: pass 4L return "IV" 
    * Will fail cause wrong roman numeral is returned
    * Modify the code in order to make it pass

```r
#Add a new test and add expectation
context("Roman Numeral Conversion")

test_that("passing an integer between [1..3] the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^I$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(2L), regexp = "^II$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(3L), regexp = "^III$")
})

test_that("passing an integer 4 the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(4L), regexp = "^IV$")
})
```

```r
#Modify the code
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  if(!is.integer(num)) stop("must be integer")
  if (num == 1L) return("I")
  if (num == 2L) return("II")
  if (num == 3L) return("III")
  if (num == 4L) return("IV")
}
```

(5) Create a test passing as argument a particular integer 5

* Add expectation: pass 5L return "V" 
    * Will fail cause wrong roman numeral is returned
    * Modify the code in order to make it pass

Continue one simple step at a time ..... and the code performing that specifical function is shaped incrementally, one smal step after the other. Using this simple approach the final tests and code will look like

```r
#Test for the conversion [1..10]
context("Roman Numeral Conversion")

test_that("passing an integer between [1..3] the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^I$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(2L), regexp = "^II$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(3L), regexp = "^III$")
})

test_that("passing an integer 4 the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(4L), regexp = "^IV$")
})

test_that("passing an integer 5 the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(5L), regexp = "^V$")
})

test_that("passing an integer between [6..8] the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(6L), regexp = "^VI$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(7L), regexp = "^VII$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(8L), regexp = "^VIII$")
})

test_that("passing an integer 9 the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(9L), regexp = "^IX$")
})

test_that("passing an integer 10 the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(10L), regexp = "^X$")
})
```

```r
#Simplest code possible to pass the tests
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  if(!is.integer(num)) stop("must be integer")

  if(num == 1L) return("I")
  if(num == 2L) return("II")
  if(num == 3L) return("III")
  if(num == 4L) return("IV")
  if(num == 5L) return("V")
  if(num == 6L) return("VI")
  if(num == 7L) return("VII")
  if(num == 8L) return("VIII")
  if(num == 9L) return("IX")
  if(num == 10L) return("X")
}
```

Once we have a test harness around the code we can __start to refactor the code__ in order to get a more legant solution like 

```r
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  if(!is.integer(num)) stop("must be integer")

  roman_numeral <- NULL
  decimal_values <- c(10L, 9L, 5L,4L, 1L)
  roman_numerals <- c("X", "IX", "V","IV", "I")

  for (i in 1: length(decimal_values)){
    while(decimal_values[i] <= num){
      roman_numeral <- paste(roman_numeral, roman_numerals[i], sep = "")
      num <- num - decimal_values[i]
    }
  }
  return(roman_numeral)
}
```

Commit message:

Adding info on how to install the package

README.md, after:

# README

Using a TDD approach with the support of the `testthat` package to solve teh roman conversion algorithm challenge in R.

See `tests/test_input_argument_validity.R` for the actual tests for validity of input argument.  
See `tests/test_roman_numeral_conversiona.R` for the actual tests for converstions.  
See `code/roman_numeral.R` for the actual code used for conversion.  

In order to be able to run the example the `testthat` package needs to be locally installed

```r
#Using the CRAN repo
install.packages("testthat")
```

## Assumption

* Be sure that the working directory is set to the parent directory of `code` and `tests` folders.
* Run the set up file using `source("set_up_env.R")`
    * the __Autotest__ modality is switched on using the `auto_test()` function
        * __every change to code or tests will trigger the running of all tests__

## TDD approach: step by step

### Start Up

__think about the design of the code__  

* where to put the function, e.g folder, file
* name of the function
* function parameter(s)

__implement the function shell__  

* it accept an argument (any)
* it returns a "I" value (simplification)


```r
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  return("I")
}
```

__before writing any code, write a failing test__

* simplest modification to the code in order to make it pass - cut & paste allowed
* when all tests passing - refactor the code using the tests as a safety net

### And then, incremental design, one small step at a time

#### Step1, the argument must be integer otherwise an exception is thrown

(1) Create a test passing as argument a non numeric/ integer (e.g. 1) - expecting an error

* Add expectation: pass 1 return an error
    * Will fail cause an error is not thrown
* Modify the code in order to make it pass
            
```r
#Add expectation
context("Input Argument Validity")

test_that("passing a non numeric/ integer an exception is thrown",{
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman(1))
})
}
```

```r
#Modify the code
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  if(!is.integer(num)) stop("must be integer")
  return("I")
}
```

* Add expectation: pass 3.14 return an error
    * Will pass (same condition as before just a different argument)
* Add expectation: pass a string return an error
    * Will pass (same condition as before just a different type for argument)

```r
#Add expectations
context("Input Argument Validity")

test_that("passing a non numeric/ integer an exception is thrown",{
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman(1))
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman(3.14))
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman("test"))
})
```

(2) Create a test passing as argument a numeric/ integer (e.g. 1L) - expecting roman numeral "I"

* Add expectation: pass 1L return "I"
    * Will pass ("I" is hradcoded)

```r
context("Input Argument Validity")

test_that("passing a non numeric/ integer an exception is thrown",{
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman(1))
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman(3.14))
  expect_error(object = convert_to_roman("test"))
})

test_that("passing a numeric/ integer no exception thrown",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^I$")
})
```



#### Step2, passing an integer the correct roman numeral is returned

(3) Create a test passing as argument an integer between [1..3]

* Add expectation: pass 1L return "I" 
    * Should pass cause already coverend in (2)

```r
#Create a new context, a new test and add expectation
context("Roman Numeral Conversion")

test_that("passing an integer between [1..3] the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^I$")
})
```

* Add expectation: pass 2L return "II" (and repeat for 3 return "III")
    * Will fail cause wrong roman numeral is returned
    * Modify the code in order to make it pass

```r
#Create a new context, a new test and add expectation
context("Roman Numeral Conversion")

test_that("passing an integer between [1..3] the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^I$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^II$")
})
```

```r
#Modify the code
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  if(!is.integer(num)) stop("must be integer")
  if (num == 1L) return("I")
  if (num == 2L) return("II")
}
```

```r
#Create a new context, a new test and add expectation
context("Roman Numeral Conversion")

test_that("passing an integer between [1..3] the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^I$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^II$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^III$")
})
```

```r
#Modify the code
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  if(!is.integer(num)) stop("must be integer")
  if (num == 1L) return("I")
  if (num == 2L) return("II")
  if (num == 3L) return("III")
}
```

(4) Create a test passing as argument a particular integer 4

* Add expectation: pass 4L return "IV" 
    * Will fail cause wrong roman numeral is returned
    * Modify the code in order to make it pass

```r
#Add a new test and add expectation
context("Roman Numeral Conversion")

test_that("passing an integer between [1..3] the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^I$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(2L), regexp = "^II$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(3L), regexp = "^III$")
})

test_that("passing an integer 4 the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(4L), regexp = "^IV$")
})
```

```r
#Modify the code
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  if(!is.integer(num)) stop("must be integer")
  if (num == 1L) return("I")
  if (num == 2L) return("II")
  if (num == 3L) return("III")
  if (num == 4L) return("IV")
}
```

(5) Create a test passing as argument a particular integer 5

* Add expectation: pass 5L return "V" 
    * Will fail cause wrong roman numeral is returned
    * Modify the code in order to make it pass

Continue one simple step at a time ..... and the code performing that specifical function is shaped incrementally, one smal step after the other. Using this simple approach the final tests and code will look like

```r
#Test for the conversion [1..10]
context("Roman Numeral Conversion")

test_that("passing an integer between [1..3] the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(1L), regexp = "^I$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(2L), regexp = "^II$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(3L), regexp = "^III$")
})

test_that("passing an integer 4 the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(4L), regexp = "^IV$")
})

test_that("passing an integer 5 the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(5L), regexp = "^V$")
})

test_that("passing an integer between [6..8] the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(6L), regexp = "^VI$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(7L), regexp = "^VII$")
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(8L), regexp = "^VIII$")
})

test_that("passing an integer 9 the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(9L), regexp = "^IX$")
})

test_that("passing an integer 10 the correct roman numeral is returned",{
  expect_match(object = convert_to_roman(10L), regexp = "^X$")
})
```

```r
#Simplest code possible to pass the tests
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  if(!is.integer(num)) stop("must be integer")

  if(num == 1L) return("I")
  if(num == 2L) return("II")
  if(num == 3L) return("III")
  if(num == 4L) return("IV")
  if(num == 5L) return("V")
  if(num == 6L) return("VI")
  if(num == 7L) return("VII")
  if(num == 8L) return("VIII")
  if(num == 9L) return("IX")
  if(num == 10L) return("X")
}
```

Once we have a test harness around the code we can __start to refactor the code__ in order to get a more legant solution like 

```r
convert_to_roman <- function(num){
  if(!is.integer(num)) stop("must be integer")

  roman_numeral <- NULL
  decimal_values <- c(10L, 9L, 5L,4L, 1L)
  roman_numerals <- c("X", "IX", "V","IV", "I")

  for (i in 1: length(decimal_values)){
    while(decimal_values[i] <= num){
      roman_numeral <- paste(roman_numeral, roman_numerals[i], sep = "")
      num <- num - decimal_values[i]
    }
  }
  return(roman_numeral)
}
```
